## Data Mining
### Overview

_Data mining_ is the application of mathematical or statistical processes for the purpose
of extracting hidden knowledge from large data sets. This knowledge is subsequently
used for various purposes, including actionable business intelligence and
biotechnology research.

Data mining techniques provide descriptive information that is manifest in inherent
patterns or relations between the data. This can be achieved, for example, with
algorithms for clustering or association rules detection (link analysis).

They also uncover correlations, often due to causal relationships, between the data and
a specific target property. This information is used to make predictions about unknown
data or future behavior. Techniques generating these models are known as _supervised
learning algorithms_, and include classification and approximation algorithms.

Whereas most analysis tools support the retrospective analysis of data sets by verifying
a user’s hypotheses, data mining attempts to discover trends and behaviors without the
need for guessing about possible relationships.

Data mining tools are particularly effective in the data warehouse environment,
because data warehouses offer large quantities of cleansed business data for
consumption by data mining tools. Also, the advanced query and analytical capabilities
available in most data warehouses (e.g., relational databases, OLAP servers, and
information visualization tools) can be used to great advantage by data mining tools in
their formulation of models, and in the evaluation of those models by human users.

### Organization
#### Dependencies
The Data Mining package depends on the following package:
* org.omg:CWM:ObjectModel:Core

#### Major Classes and Associations
The CWM Data Mining metamodel consists of seven conceptual areas: A core Mining
metamodel (upon which the other areas depend), and metamodels representing the data
mining subdomains of Clustering, Association Rules, Supervised, Classification,
Approximation, and Attribute Importance. Each area is represented by the metamodel
packages shown in the diagram below.

Collectively, the collection of Data Mining packages provide the necessary abstractions
to model generic representations of data mining models (i.e., mathematical models
produced or generated by the execution of data mining algorithms).

Included are representations of data mining tasks and models, as well as other entities
(such as category matrix) that are common across most data mining applications and
tools, as well as their relationships to each other and their mappings to technical
metadata.

The Mining Core package consists of common Data Mining abstractions that are
fundamental to, and reused by, the major conceptual areas. In particular, this package
contains several basic packages that are required to implement the CWM Data Mining
interfaces. It is required that at least this package and one more Data Mining package
be implemented for compliance. The packages forming the Mining Core are shown in
the next diagram.

The following subsections describe the content of each component package of the
MiningCore. This is subsequently followed by subsections describing each of the
major conceptual area packages.

#### Mining Function Settings

This package defines the objects that contain parameters specific to mining functions.
The separation of mining functions from mining algorithms enables the user to specify
the type of the desired result without being concerned with a particular algorithm. The
Mining Function Settings metamodel is illustrated above.

Mining FunctionSettings (MFS) is the superclass of all other function settings classes.
An MFS instance references a set of MiningAttributes, aggregated by a LogicalData
instance. The AttributeUsage set defines how each of the MiningAttributes will be used
by the Mining Algorithm.

This package defines the basic Mining Model from which all model objects inherit as
the result of a mining build task. The Mining Model metamodel is illustrated above.

Each MiningModel has a signature that defines the characteristics of the data required
by the model.

This package defines the basic MiningResult object from which all result objects
inherit as the result of a specific mining task (other than build).

#### Mining Data
This package defines the objects that describe the input data, the way the input data is
to be treated, and the mapping between the input data and internal representation for
which mining algorithms can understand.

PhysicalData effectively references and instance of a class or subclass (e.g., Table, file,
etc.). This allows JDM to leverage the various row/column format data representation
expressible in CWM.

Mining Data metaclasses representing the concepts of _physical data_ are illustrated in
Figure 12-6. Logical data metaclasses are illustrated in Figure 12-7. Attribute
assignment and attribute usage metaclasses are illustrated in two subsequent diagrams
(Figure 12-8 and Figure 12-9, respectively)

Finally, metaclasses used to model the matrix representation and taxonomy of mining
data are presented in Figure 12-10, Category Matrix, and Figure 12-11, Category
Taxonomy, respectively.

Figure 12-6 illustrates those elements of the Mining Data metamodel used to model
physical data, whereas the following diagram shows those elements facilitating the
logical modeling of data.
